[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so
we've got two predominant models for
scoping in JavaScript.
There's a lexical scope model,
which we've been discussing,
that's the predominant scope
model across most languages.
But there's this other scope model
that's called dynamic scope,
it's not present in JavaScript.
It's not present in hardly any language
that you've probably ever worked in.
There's a couple of random
examples of what dynamic scope is.
So the bash scripting
language uses dynamic scope.
There's an opt-in mode
of Perl that allows Perl to operate
in a dynamic scoping fashion.
And there's some old academic
languages that use the name scope.
But for the vast majority of
languages you've ever dealt with,
you've dealt with scoping in
the lexical scoping model.
What does the name lexical mean?
Well that's kind of a fancy term that
the lex, that refers to the parsing stage
called lexing that occurs in the compiler
when it's parsing through your code.
The takeaway from that is that lexical
scope Means compile time scope.
In other words,
at the time that you wrote your code, and
that code then got compiled,
the decisions for
how all the scoping were going to
occur were made in stone at point.
There were no more decisions
about scope that were to be made
beyond that lexical phase.
So the compiler decides what your
scope is and we already that.
We saw implicitly that when we walked
through our code, and we walked into
a function, because there was a function
there that created a new unit of scope,
and any declarations inside of it were
attached to that new nested scope.
And no matter how deep we go,
that was all true.
So we've already seen this
lexical scope thing happening.
Now why would I point out dynamic scope?
Well I'm actually gonna give you
a contrast here in a moment,
of what dynamic scope actually would
look like if we had it in JavaScript.
It's gonna look weird, but
I'm gonna give you a comparison because
I want you to be able to compare dynamic
scope to something that we're gonna see
a little bit later, which is the okay?
All right, I'm gonna give you
this metaphor, this diagram.
It's a highly technical diagram.
It's a metaphor for you of what we've
been talking about with scoping, and
I want you to ignore the,
right hand side of the diagram for now.
That we will explain as we go through
out the rest of the day, okay?
We won't understand most of the right
hand side until the end of today, or
most of the way to the end.
But on the left hand side
we see Lexical Scope, and
I want you to think of it like a building.
It's kind of like the current scope
is the first floor of the building.
I'm looking for
something on the first floor.
I either find it there or I don't, and
if I don't find it there, what do I do?
I go up one level of my scoping and
I go out one level in my scoping
it's kind of metaphorically,
like taking the stairs or
the elevator up to the second floor of
my building and looking for it there.
And going to the third floor, the fourth
floor, and the fifth floor, and eventually
I get to the top floor of the building
which represents the global scope.
I either find it there or I don't but
there's no more floors to go to.
Okay.
So I want you to metaphorically think
of this lexical scope traversal that
we've been talking about,
as like going up the floors,
up the elevator of a building, okay.
Another way of visualizing it, a little
bit more sort of attached to this code,
is the idea of nested scope bubbles.
So there's a bubble around the scope of
baz, and there's a bubble around the scope
of foo, and there's a bubble around
the outer enclosing closing scope,
in this case, the global scope.
And what I want you to notice about these
bubbles is that they are strictly nested
within each other.
This is not like Venn Diagrams, where we
have bubbles overlapping with each other.
You can't have the scope of foo
partially in two other scopes or
whatever, it's strictly nesting
that's occurring here, okay?
Now, what's interesting
about this nesting is,
the nesting that occurs is fundamental
to the way lexical scope works.
The fact that baz is inside of foo,
as opposed to outside of foo,
is an irrevocable decision
that you made at author time.
You chose to put baz inside of foo which
means you chose to next the scope bubble
of baz inside of the scope bubble of foo.
So these are author timed decisions, or
what we call compile time decisions for
how the scope works.
What this means is that the compiler, when
he's processing through this code, and
he processes the outer bubble,
and then the inner bubble, and
then finally the smallest
bubble in the middle.
When he processes through
those nested scopes,
he knows exactly what the scope
looks like, because it can't change.
It's an author time decision,
and your code isn't going to change itself
at author time, I mean at run time.
So it knows ahead of time, even though we
conceptually talked about that whole idea
of like looking in my current scope, and
then going to the next one or whatever.
Doesn't actually have to do that,
because it knows it can pile
time where everything is, and
it can cache all of those references.
So from an optimization perspective, it
knows categorically, where bar is already
doesn't need to look in baz, because
it knows exactly where bar is already.
So as it's compiling,
it can cache all these references.
It's an author time
decision about your scope.
So you made the choices about
where you put your functions
at the time that you offered your code.